



Good day everyone, this is Ryan Tulabing, from the University of Auckland, New Zealand. On behalf of my colleagues, it is a privilege to present to you our research about Integration of Distributed Energy Resources 
and Enhancing Local Grid Load Factor using Localized Demand Control. 

The research project is motivated by the fact that the advent of Distributed Energy Resources such as solar PV and Electric Vehicles has introduced new challenges in the electrical grid, particularly in residential networks. EVs can cause higher peak demands since they require significant amount of power that often coincides with the pre-existing peak periods. Meanwhile, since solar PVs produce power during daytime when residential demand is already low, the net power demand is further reduced which may even lead to reverse power flow. This increasing disparity between the peaks and valleys of the power demand affects the system efficiency which can be expressed through the load factor. The load factor, which is defined as the ratio between the average and peak power demand ranges between zero and one, a higher value means better system efficiency. Consider this plot of a local grid's power demand against its duration. System peaks only happen at less than 10% of the time. For 90% of the time, the rest of the invested system capacity is sitting idle. The traditional solution of simply upgrading the system capacity to cater higher peaks would not address the worsening system efficiency, instead it will lead to higher cost of delivering power.
The alternative solution is to reduce the peak demand through demand-side management or Demand Response. However, the existing DR programs are commonly implemented in wider areas and local grid issues are often overlooked. We propose to address this gap through Localized Demand Control.

Localized Demand Control enables the local grid to follow a certain target power demand by reducing the total consumption during peak hours and ramp up the demand when there is excess in local power generation. This system requires two main devices: the signal injector, and the control dongles. The signal injector monitors the aggregated demand at the distribution transformer and compares it against the target power demand. Any offset is corrected by sending ripple signals through the power lines to command an increase or decrease in power consumption. The signal is received and implemented by the control dongles by appropriately changing the status of the loads they control. We classified the different types of loads as flexible and non-flexible. Loads that have direct interaction with the endusers such as lights and cooking appliances are considered urgent and non-flexible. Meanwhile, flexible loads are sub-classified as thermostat-controlled,  battery-based, and the non-urgent. Each load is assigned with a priority number based on its recent state. If the received signal is higher than its priority value, the control dongle turns ON the device, otherwise it turns it OFF, subject to the device's constraints. With the combined action of the signal injector and the dongles, the aggregated demand can be made to "hover" around the desired value. For the purpose of flattening the demand curve, the target value is based on the average power demand of the local grid. 

Prior to conducting the simulation studies, the system functionality has been validated first in an actual 5-house microgrid at Ardmore, New Zealand. The confirmed results warrant a scaled up simulation using a 60-house local grid during the summer and winter seasons which are chosen to show the maximum impact of peak demand and peak PV generation. As shown in the graphs, the increasing adoption of DERs increases the peak demands at early evenings, and reduces the minimum demands at daytime. This result also confirms the decline in the system load factor as penetration of DERs increase. However, when the LDC system is adopted, peak demands are significantly reduced while system load factors are improved. Meanwhile, a second case study was done to see the impact of the varying adoption of the LDC system. Results show that when more flexible loads are LDC-enabled, the system performance also improves, the highest jump in improvement happens between 50% to 80% adoption of the LDC system.

In conclusion, this study shows that DERs can worsen the load factor of the local grids. The traditional solution of simply upgrading the asset capacity can lead to higher cost of power distribution. Our proposed solution, the Localized Demand Control can prepare the local grids for more DER integration while deferring the costly capacity upgrades.

For further research we recommend to conduct a deeper cost-benefit analysis on the required capital investments for LDC system adoption.